in 1999 Travis's love for freestyle
nearly cost him his life
he went out his first run all of his
jumps were just spot-on they were
perfect his landings were perfect
everything was perfect and he went back
out of the stadium made a big u-turn and
came through and at the last second he
just chopped the throttle just a touch
and just enough to mess it up he went
from 60 miles an hour to reverse in just
a split second he just hit so hard you
figured how can somebody survive that
hit I mean I was sure I was sure that he
was dead they did these tests on him in
the first doctor he couldn't find
anything wrong and then he told Travis
you can get up now
and I I went ballistic they were sitting
him up on this board
now that could have actually killed him
now that we know Travis had a pretty
unique injury the force of all the
weight and mass of the upper body was
driven down into the pelvis it was a
much bigger injury than anybody had
realized kept complaining about his
stomach hurting internal bleeding is
what it was I don't think people realize
just how close he was having blood
nearly half his blood volume into his
belly I mean if it had happened quickly
rather than okay over a period of time
we wouldn't be having this discussion
you know people always say as long as
you learn from your mistakes they were
worth it and with Havasu the thing I
learned I don't I don't know if it was a
good thing I learned that you can only
tolerate so much pain before you pass
out and I figured I'd already been
through the most pain I could ever
possibly go through so it really wasn't
anything to fear most people if they
think you know they get an accident
doing something they love if it if it
hurts them bad enough they're able to
just walk away from it and be like I can
never do that again because and you live
in the past in that in that fear and
someone like Travis is is able to take
that fear look at dead in the eye and
say I'm letting you go I want to see
what's on the other side and that's
amazing in 1999 the X Games was about to
introduce freestyle motocross to the
world on a grand scale
despite the insertion of two titanium
screws Travis wasn't going to miss it
and then he says I want to do X Games I
said I don't think so you just separated
your body six months prior you've got
her kidding me and you know Travis when
you get something in his head he's gonna
do it fifteen years old I like
motorcycles yeah I've had 18 broken
bones at eight surgeries in the past
four years
travis Pastrana first gold first time
for freestyle Motorway everyone was
talking about this new hot kid and he
was gonna jump in the jump in the bag he
clinched the gold and he was excited and
Malcolm got a life jacket he put under
his gear they drained the gas just
enough gas to get over and he went and
he launched it
Java's really might be the biggest idiot
I know